>> Is there a hidden,
more esoteric,
deeper meaning to the Hollywood
films that we all love
to watch?
I'm Jay Dyer.
>> And I'm Jay Weidner.
And this is "Hollywood Decoded."
[THEME MUSIC]
>> I don't think it's possible
to do a show about film
and conspiracy without dealing
with possibly the most popular
conspiracy TV show of
all time, "The X-Files."
And really what
"The X-Files" does
is reveal everything that's
based in reality in terms
of conspiracy.
So that's why we
chose it and that's
what we're going
to look at today.
>> Yeah.
It really was a
revolutionary show, heavily
influenced by previous
shows like "Twin Peaks."
It took place in the
Pacific Northwest.
It had a credible
atmosphere about it,
and the acting and writing
was just top-notch.
And it does look
like Chris Carter had
some kind of connections
into the military industrial
intelligence complex, and he
was revealing information.
The big question is--
I think that's what we're
going to be exploring here--
in the show is, was he
releasing information
that he was finding out?
Or was he releasing
information that
was given to him on purpose?
>> What I think is fascinating
is that it's not just about
aliens or off-world entities
or genetic engineering.
There's also a ton
of episodes that
deal with mind control and the
occult and spiritual realities.
And that, I think, is
what makes it so unique,
in that you have shows that deal
with just aliens or just this.
But I mean, this
really encompasses
of an alternative perspective
of how to understand the world.
>> And I think that's why at
the time it was so mind-blowing,
because us in the conspiracy
community were watching it.
And there's this
eerie kind of feedback
of what research we were doing.
There would suddenly
be an "X-Files"
episode on what you
were just looking at.
And it was also
at the same time,
this was the emergence of
kind of conspiracy radio,
about '92, '91, with Art Bell.
And so there was this
whole conspiracy culture
with Jim Keith and all these
people erupting into society
all at the same time.
It was a heady time to be
involved in it, because it
was so revolutionary.
And we had so many people
against what we were saying.
Then to have a Hollywood TV show
come out and confirm not only
our worst suspicions, but
actually our worst fears.
And I think that's why
it's such a great show.
>> Yeah.
It's also the time period
where the internet was just
becoming the norm, right?
And I remember when I
first got on the internet
in the mid-'90s, you would
see conspiracy stuff.
Some of the earliest
stuff that would pop up
was conspiracy-related material.
>> Absolutely was.
>> So what we're going
to look at, though,
is a lot of clips that deal
with mind control and MK-ULTRA,
and how that actually ties into
big deep state programs related
to everything in the universe,
actually in the whole biosphere
and geoengineering.
So let's look at the
clip from "Fresh Bones."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- This is the tree that
stopped Private McAlpin's car.
The state police reported
there was graffiti on the bark.
- It looks like some
kind of ritual symbol.
- Most of the refugees
at Folkstone are Haitian.
>> Mrs. McAlpin believes Buddha
was behind her husband's death?
- Mrs. McAlpin doesn't believe
her husband killed himself.
She wants to know who did.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So what we have
here is a sigil.
What this is supposed
to do is basically
initiate the ritual working.
And in this case, it brings
upon a curse upon the military
and people that are oppressing
sort of Haitian refugees
and whatnot.
But I thought it was fascinating
because one of the consistent
themes throughout "X-Files" is
going to be the fact that you
would think that the masculine
Mulder-type character would be
reason and
rationality and logic.
But it's flipped.
He's actually constantly
going on his intuition.
He wants to believe
in more than just
the physical scientism that
Scully is obsessed with.
And that's what is funny
about her character
is that she is feminine,
but she's not really
at all interested
in her intuition.
She's always trying to find this
logical, rational explanation.
And almost 95% of the time
it's Mulder that's correct.
But I thought this was
a fascinating clip,
because we overlook
the fact that "X-Files"
is not just about
UFOs and whatnot.
It's also about cults and mind
control and spiritual entities.
>> Yeah.
And Chris Carter
was known to have
examined like Scientology, which
was right there in LA where
he lived.
And he was quite fascinated
by cult techniques
of mind control.
So I think that
that is fascinating,
because at the time,
that was totally taboo.
In the mid-'90s, early '90s,
you just did not talk about it.
If you did talk about
it, it was always
veiled in this like conservative
religious sense that was
controlling the mind control.
And it wasn't really until later
when other researchers began
really pushing their stuff
that we began realizing--
and I don't know how
Carter knew this--
that there really were
these kind of connections
between religious
cults and mind control,
and that the intelligence
agencies were using it
to their advantage.
>> Yes.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And I like that in
this episode you
have the combination
of scopolamine, which
is this very powerful
drug that kind of makes
you lose the
faculty of your will
and you're very suggestible.
And the reason
that's relevant is
that it's a combination of
mind control, occult practice,
and the use of drugs.
And you mentioned intelligence
agencies and cults.
And if you go back to
the MK-ULTRA program
in the earliest
days in the '40s,
they were actually studying
hallucinogens and truth serums,
trying to find some
sort of chemical basis.
And what happened was that
actually just exploded
into this research into the
psyche and into sociology.
And it became this mass program.
You mentioned Jim Keith.
One of his more famous
books is Mass Consciousness,
where he's talking
about mass control
through MK-ULTRA in terms of
individuals being studied,
and then that expanding
out to the whole public.
And there are "X-Files" episodes
that actually deal with that,
everything from TV signals being
used to mind control people
to the implanting of microchips.
And that's back to
those electrodes
that Jose Delgado
was involved in.
So when we look at this
episode, what's happening
is the indication of
this sort of Baron
Samedi-type character,
which is one of the Vodun
that they worship.
And he's being invoked
to curse someone.
It's just that simple.
But it also utilizes
the techniques
of drug warfare,
chemical warfare.
And so that's why
I'm bringing it up
is that the intelligence
agencies intensely
studied all this, like you're
talking about with Scientology.
And that all ties into MK-ULTRA.
It was all connected.
>> All connected.
>> The development of LSD
comes from the Macy Foundation
working with the Sandoz
pharmaceutical foundation
to create something that
could be used as a pop-culture
brainwashing
technique, I believe.
>> Well, absolutely.
>> And that's Dave
McGowan's argument.
>> If you read the
book "Acid Dreams"
Colonel Hubbard spread LSD
all up and down the West Coast
in the early '60s.
The CIA was responsible
for the spreading of LSD.
>> And so in this
episode, though,
what's interesting is that
you have the military directly
involved with this cult. And who
is the real cult leader here?
It's not the Haitian refugees.
It's actually one
of the generals
who was initiated into
the shamanic practices
and so forth.
And so he's the
one that's actually
doing the black magic here.
>> Exactly, suggesting like
Michael Aquino and some
of the Presidio stuff.
>> Exactly.
Right.
>> So it's very interesting that
Chris Carter knew about this
stuff.
That was pretty
mature for that time.
>> So this next episode we're
going to look at, "Closure."
And "Closure" deals with Mulder
learning the totality of what
happened to his sister.
For the first half
of the show, we're
worried about his
abducted sister.
Was it aliens?
Was it the government?
We're going to find out that it
was the Cigarette Smoking Man,
and it was for a specific
government project.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Mulder.
What are you doing?
- It's here.
- What is?
- There was a boy.
He led me into this room.
- Mulder.
- It's a diary.
It's your sister's.
- "I did more tests today."
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So this basically sums up
the totality of "The X-Files."
Mulder discovers
his sister's diary,
which records these
tests that were
done where Cigarette Smoking Man
actually took Mulder's sister.
It wasn't an alien abduction.
It was him that took
her for these tests
on this military base.
And it specifically is said to
be MK-ULTRA-type experiments.
So there was a deal made.
The government wanted to link
up with the alien race that
was coming to basically
depopulate the Earth.
And so all of the conspiracies
that we hear about
bantered around, you mentioned
since the '90s on the internet,
it's all explained in "The
X-Files," ultimately basically
being true, including
even genetic modification.
They're wanting to engineer
a cancer virus to wipe out
a lot of the population.
>> Yeah.
And it's also interesting
that he touches on something
which I really didn't
believe but I'd
heard about until recently.
And that is this whole idea
that the government is actually
testing children in
school and figuring out
which ones they want to bring
into their special programs.
And I keep coming
up against this
over and over as I investigate
like different things
of cosmic disclosure, and
I find that they're now--
and were at this time, and
actually ever since the late
'70s--
using children in
these programs,
in long-term programs,
in which the parents
don't know about it.
The child doesn't know about it.
And Mulder may be part of
this mind control program
that his sister is in.
>> Yes.
Absolutely.
In fact, this episode
references back to Season 3,
one of the most famous "X-Files"
episodes, "Paper Clip."
And in "Paper Clip," you
have the Nazi scientist being
brought over, you
know, post World War II
to basically create NASA
and the MK-ULTRA program.
>> One of the most incredible
"X-Files" ever, that episode.
>> Exactly.
>> But yeah.
He's recalling that episode and
then advancing the ball forward
in ways that we really
didn't know back then.
That's what I want
to tell everybody.
We did not know that
this was going on.
>> Yeah.
Who in the '90s was
familiar with Paper Clip?
Very few people.
>> Very few people.
That's why it was
so shocking when
you saw it, because it was
like just whispered about
at the time.
>> So in this next clip we're
going to look at what's called
"Via Negativa."
And this relates
directly to theology.
And this is the idea of
learning about the divine
or the transcendent
through negation.
Since we don't know
what infinity is,
we don't know what
omniscience is,
we have to define these terms
basically by what they're not,
right?
So omniscience is not
being finite, right?
And I thought there's a
curious title for this episode,
because once again we
have this veteran who
has gone through some kind
of mind control programming.
And he starts his
own religious cult.
And this religious cult revolves
around the all-seeing eye.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Is this every member?
- Except one.
Their leader, Anthony
Tipet, is missing.
- Tipet was a convicted murderer
who claimed to have found God.
We didn't think we were dealing
with an apocalyptic cult.
We've seen this kind
of thing before.
Jonestown, Heaven's Gate.
- I don't care how
devoted they were.
These people wouldn't just
lie here and let their leader
bash their brains in.
I got to figure at
least one of them would
have had a problem with that.
- It's something
I've considered.
I'm running tox tests
on the bodies for drugs.
- Does that include
our man in the car?
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So the all-seeing eye is a
curious usage in this episode.
And it's explained to be
related to the third eye, right?
And for this cult leader, this
vet who again kind of goes
nuts after whatever
programming he went through,
he uses his third-eye telepathic
powers to murder people.
Now that's obviously a little
bit I would say exaggerated.
But there's some truth to this,
because it recalls real cult
murders, like Heaven's Gate
and others like Jonestown
that you mentioned earlier.
>> I find it interesting that
the vet is creating these
ritualized murders in the same
way that Heaven's Gate was
doing it.
And that was, again, right
around the same time period.
>> Exactly.
>> So Carter is echoing current
events in a strange way.
But he's also-- the
third eye really
hadn't been put into the public
consciousness at this time.
This was a new concept.
Maybe not against
new-agers or whatever,
but among people watching
TV this was pretty amazing.
>> What I found really poignant
here was that Doggett comes
in as the skeptic
to replace Scully.
Scully's having mommy
issues, because she's
got this hybrid alien baby that
she's trying to give birth to.
So Doggett comes
in as a skeptic.
And he doesn't believe
in any of this stuff.
But yet he's confronted with,
again, ritual murders and mind
control.
And what's fascinating
is that in this episode,
once again the Lone Gunmen
are helping Doggett.
And they do some research.
And they say, hey, this
guy was actually involved
in the MK-ULTRA program.
And they gave a whole bunch
of LSD to these people.
And some of them had bad
trips and kind of went nuts.
And their third eye was
opened to see something dark.
And in essence, this guy's
essentially possessed.
So in the next
clip, this is kind
of the summation of the grand
unified field conspiracy
theory that is "The
X-Files" mythology.
And what Joel McHale does
is kind of lump everything
together into one, which I
think is the grand conspiracy
ultimately.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- What are they trying to do?
- That's the missing piece.
- But it's not hard to imagine,
a government hiding, hoarding
alien technology for 70 years,
at the expense of human life
and the future of
the planet, driven
not only by corporate greed,
but a darker objective.
- The takeover of America.
- And then the world itself,
by any means necessary,
however violent or
cruel or efficient,
by severe drought brought on by
weather wars conducted secretly
using aerial contaminants and
high-altitude electromagnetic
waves, in a state
of perpetual war,
to create
problem-reaction-solution
scenarios to distract, enrage,
and enslave American citizens
at home, with tools like the
PATRIOT Act and the National
Defense Authorization Act,
which abridge the Constitution
in the name of
national security.
The militarization of police
forces in cities across the US;
the building of prison camps
by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with
no stated purpose;
the corporate takeover
of food and agriculture,
pharmaceuticals,
and health care.
Even the military and
clandestine agendas to fatten,
dull, sicken, and
control a populace
already consumed by consumerism.
- And I encourage you
all to go shopping more.
- A government that taps your
phone, collects your data,
and monitors your
whereabouts with impunity,
a government preparing to use
that data against you when
it strikes and the
final takeover begins.
- The takeover of America.
- By a well-oiled and well-armed
multi-national group of elites
that will cull,
kill, and subjugate.
- Happening as we sit here.
- It's happening all around us.
- The other shoe
waiting to drop.
- It will probably
start on a Friday.
The banks will announce
a security action
necessitating their computers
to go offline all weekend.
- Digital money will disappear.
- They can just
steal your money?
- Followed by the detonation of
strategic electromagnetic pulse
bombs to knock out major grids.
- What will seem like
an attack on America
by terrorists or Russia.
- Or a simulated
alien invasion, using
alien replica vehicles that
exist and are already in use.
- An alien invasion of the US?
- The Russians tried it in '47.
- You can't say these things.
- I'm going to
say them tomorrow.
- It's fear-mongering claptrap
isolationist technoparanoia,
so bogus and dangerous
and stupid that it borders
on treason.
Saying these things would
be incredibly irresponsible.
- It's irresponsible
not to say it.
- Especially if it's the truth.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> So here we have a cornucopia,
with Bush coming in, who is
the father of this whole
PATRIOT Act, and terrorists,
the terrorists are
coming to get us.
>> Are you with us
or you're against us?
>> Right.
The explanation that Joel
McHale's character here gives
is basically correct.
I would say that
most of what he says
is the real conspiracy
that's going on.
And I think this is a
great bookend on "X-Files."
Obviously there will
be another season.
But for what we have
of the first 10,
that really sums up the
totality of "The X-Files,"
with everything from
HAARP to geoengineering
to controlled destabilization.
You have people
from the Pentagon,
like Zbigniew
Brzezinski, who writes
about destabilizing
other countries
and how this works
for global government.
I mean, it really
encapsulates it all.
It also shows globalism, global
consumerism, corporate control.
There's actual studies
that have been done,
TED Talks have
been done that show
that you can graph
the five or six
major corporations that control
huge industries like pharma,
food.
All of this is controlled
by just a few shareholders.
So that's how we have a
corporate global government
now.
>> Well, in 2008, there was
a Swiss study where they were
trying to disprove the
worldwide conservatorship.
>> That's it.
That's it.
>> And they concluded
that 134, I think it is,
corporations run 90%
of the world's economy.
>> 90%.
Yeah.
>> And that 800 men run
those 134 corporations.
So they concluded, this study--
>> There's a peer-reviewed proof
of global government, right.
>> --that 800 men
run the world, right?
And so we can see in
this last soliloquy
that Carter is trying
to get the word out.
And somehow in this
reboot, he's been
told that he has to say this.
Now again, there's this whole
conspiracy going on right now
where there's some good guys
called the Alliance and then
these bad guys that are
called like the Empire.
And there's an internecine
war within the intelligence--
>> Which is in "The X-Files."
>> You have the Syndicate and
then the good guys, right?
>> Right.
And Carter may be
part of the Alliance.
We don't know.
It looks like it
from this episode,
that he's part of the Alliance
and he's trying to warn us,
because that had to be
the most-watched show
of the series, because it was
the first one in the reboot.
And he knew he could
not waste his time.
He had to say everything
and get it all out.
And when it was all done,
Scully still is not a believer.
>> Right.
>> It's amazing.
>> Yeah.
So I think the take-away
from "The X-Files"
ultimately is that we
can't trust the government.
This is what Mulder
has believed all along.
Mulder is completely vindicated.
He's been right about 95% of
everything that he thought.
The government has
no qualms about using
kids, about trafficking,
about stealing,
kidnapping kids for testing.
The government is owned by
corporations, as you mentioned,
that are already
essentially linked globally.
And that's really what "The
X-Files" is presenting.
And so I love too that
that last clip also
mentioned electromagnetic
warfare and HAARP, chemtrails,
and geoengineering.
That's all there.
And you can look
at actual studies
from the VLF
Institute at Stanford
that talk about HAARP being
used for geoengineering.
So that's not a
conspiracy theory.
>> No.
And it's almost
like the military
went through the entire
plethora of human history,
of all the disasters
that have ever happened,
from famines to volcanoes
to air poisoning.
And they've decided to
weaponize everything.
>> Weaponize everything.
>> Yeah.
And so now we have
at our fingertips
the ability to destroy the
entire planet in a second.
>> Absolutely.
>> And that's the
real problem we face.
>> Once again, Scully
represents cognitive dissonance.
She's the person who's convinced
that no matter what evidence
is presented before
her, she's still
going to fall back
into that skepticism,
because it's easier.
It's difficult; it's
a challenge to have
our paradigms
questioned and to accept
things that may not fit with
the way we want reality to be.
And so in a way, she
represents the public.
A lot of people you can show
them so many times facts
and truths and hard
evidence, and you understand
that ultimately some
people are just not going
to accept what's
before their face
because it's too difficult.
>> Well, I think that's true.
And when she says that
it's irresponsible to put
this information out like this,
and then Mulder shoots back,
well, it's irresponsible
not to do it.
>> That's right.
And anybody who is in pursuit
of the truth, of course,
wants to hear it all.
We don't want anybody
buttering it up or anything.
And I know many, many people
that are like Scully that I've
presented the evidence so
clearly and they actually,
in some ways while I'm
presenting the evidence
are in agreement with me.
But after I leave, they go right
back to where they were before,
not believing.
It's too terrifying for them.
And denial is not
just a river in Egypt.
And that's what we see here.
>> So it's almost like it's not
just a show about conspiracies.
It's also a show about people
confronting conspiracies--
>> And their reactions.
>> --and their reactions
and psychology, ultimately.
>> And the thing is is if
you look back at great works
of art, like Shakespeare--
>> Yeah.
He was a great
human psychologist.
>> He was.
And his greatest plays
are all conspiracies.
"Macbeth," "Hamlet."
They're all a conspiracy
at the very top of power
and a guy who's naive and
doesn't understand it,
like Hamlet.
And then he has to face
that reality, right?
And that's what this is about.
And these are why these
are the most famous plays
of Shakespeare.
We love conspiracy.
The Declaration
of Independence is
nothing but one long conspiracy
theory against King George.
>> Right.
What I always say
is that if people
have a problem with conspiracies
or conspiracy theory,
which is actually
a weaponized term
that the CIA came up with--
>> That's right.
>> --around the time of
the JFK assassination,
all they have to do is
think about espionage.
Everybody loves spy stories.
Everybody loves James Bond.
That's all conspiracy,
just under a different term
called espionage, right?
Governments are conspiring.
>> I like to say that if you're
going to call me a conspiracy
theorist, then I get to call
you a coincidence theorist.
>> Coincidence theorist.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So what is "X-Files?"
"X-Files" is a revelation
of the government's method.
It's a revelation of the
government not being an entity
that we can trust, because
it's not really a government.
It's ultimately a
corporate government.
>> Yeah.
And Chris Carter is
warning us about this.
It's clearly a warning
from some faction
within the military industrial
complex that wants us
to know what's really going on.
>> Right.
Join us again next time
on "Hollywood Decoded."
I'm Jay Dyer.
>> And I'm Jay Weidner.
And thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]